Add explanation of AlevinQC report (#464)
AlexsLemonade/training-modules: scRNA-seq/01-scRNA_quant_qc.Rmd

We have also placed an example of a poor quality sample alevinQC report in the `qc-reports` directory, with the name `Bad_Example_10X_P4_2_qc_report.html`.

This report will show a few key metrics that inform you about the quality of your sample. 
There is a lot of information included in the report, so some key metrics to note are included in the `Summary tables`:

- Fraction of reads in whitelist barcodes 
- Mean number of reads per cell
- Median number of detected genes per cell 

The fraction of reads in whitelist barcodes is particularly important as a low percentage here means the library contains reads that do not correspond to cell barcodes, indicating poor single-cell capture. 
The mean number of reads per cell and median number of detected genes per cell can be helpful in understanding how deep the library was sequenced, as the higher these numbers are, the more information you will obtain per cell. 

> The `Knee plot` shows the frequency of each barcode being detected and the estimation of the `knee` cutoff. 

Author: > I think the knee plot is often very confusing, so it is probably worth explaining what the two axes are here, and maybe even what the "knee" is.

I updated the knee plot description. I was struggling a bit because of how much detail to go into without being overly confusing. I do think that this will be a big point of discussion during teaching as it is confusing for people. Let me know what you think.

We have also placed an example of a poor quality sample alevinQC report in the `qc-reports` directory, with the name `Bad_Example_10X_P4_2_qc_report.html`.

This report will show a few key metrics that inform you about the quality of your sample. 
There is a lot of information included in the report, so some key metrics to note are included in the `Summary tables`:

- Fraction of reads in whitelist barcodes 
- Mean number of reads per cell
- Median number of detected genes per cell 

The fraction of reads in whitelist barcodes is particularly important as a low percentage here means the library contains many reads that do not contain the expected cell barcodes. 
This is indicative of poor single-cell capture during library construction. 

The mean number of reads per cell and median number of detected genes per cell can be helpful in understanding how deeply the library was sequenced. 
The higher these numbers are, the more information you will obtain per cell. 

> The `knee plot` shows all possible cell barcodes identified in the library. 
> The y-axis shows the number of distinct UMIs for each cell barcode.
> Cells are then ranked by the number of UMIs and rank is depicted on the x-axis.
> 
> Cell barcodes with low UMI counts are considered empty droplets. 
> These droplets must be filtered out so we only consider true cells for downstream analysis.
> 
> The `knee` or inflection point is identified on the curve, and only cells above this threshold will be included in the final cell barcode whitelist.

Reviewer: I gave my shot at editing this. I want to remove "inflection point" because common usage of that term is a pet peeve of mine. I think the algorithms *do* use an inflection point as the cutoff, but it is the one after the downward bend that people are most likely to call the "knee". (Hot take, this is a bad plot and confuses more than it illuminates, but that is what we have.)

```suggestion
The `knee plot` shows the number of distinct UMIs for each possible cell barcode on the y-axis, with the barcodes ranked from the most UMIs to the fewest along the x-axis.

Cell barcodes with low UMI counts are likely to be empty droplets that did not contain a cell. 
These droplets must be filtered out so we only consider true cells for downstream analysis.

To do this, we can look for a `knee` on the curve where the number of UMIs per barcode starts to drop off rapidly, with the intuition that this is where we are reaching the end of the UMIs per cell distribution for true cells.
We can then choose a threshold below the knee and only include barcodes above this threshold in the final cell barcode list.
```
